OSDOCS-8990: Adds oc mirror for MicroShift operator deployment with OLM (#71992)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/microshift-ops-config-embed-ostree.adoc

//Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* microshift_running_apps/microshift-operators-olm.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-apply-ops-ostree-offline-use_{context}"]
= Applying catalogs and Operators in an offline RHEL for Edge image

After you have created a {op-system-ostree} image for offline use and configured {microshift-short} networking settings for offline use, you can configure the namespace and edit the custom resources (CR) generated by the oc mirror dry run for running your Operators.

.Prerequisites
* You have a {op-system-ostree} image.
* Networking is configured for offline use.
* You completed the oc mirror dry run procedure.

.Procedure

. Create a `CatalogSource` custom resource (CR) by using the following example YAML:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ cat > <my-catalog-source-cr.yaml> <1>

Reviewer: How is user expected to use this command?

Author: Create the actual yaml on the command line.

Author: Yes, unless you think better to have users copy our example file into a text file? Just want to provide guidance on the best way to create the file.

----
<1> Replace _<my-catalog-source-cr.yaml>_ with the name of your Catalog Source CR.
+
.Example `CatalogSource` YAML
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: CatalogSource
metadata:
  name: cs-redhat-operator-index
  namespace: openshift-marketplace <1>
spec:

>   image: registry.example.com/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.14

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  image: registry.example.com/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.15
```

> . Create a `CatalogSource` custom resource (CR) by using the following example YAML:
> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ cat > <my-catalog-source-cr.yaml> <1>
> ----
> <1> Replace _<my-catalog-source-cr.yaml>_ with the name of your Catalog Source CR.
> +
> .Example `CatalogSource` YAML
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
> kind: CatalogSource
> metadata:
>   name: cs-redhat-operator-index
>   namespace: openshift-marketplace <1>
> spec:
>   image: registry.example.com/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.15
>   sourceType: grpc
>   displayName:
>   publisher:
>   updateStrategy:
>     registryPoll:
>       interval: 60m
> ----

Reviewer 2: I suggest simplifying this: 
```suggestion
. Create a `CatalogSource` custom resource (CR), similar to the following example:
+
.Example `my-catalog-source-cr.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: CatalogSource
metadata:
  name: cs-redhat-operator-index
  namespace: openshift-marketplace <1>
spec:
  image: registry.example.com/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.15
  sourceType: grpc
  displayName:
  publisher:
  updateStrategy:
    registryPoll:
      interval: 60m
----
```

<1> The global namespace. Setting the `metadata.namespace` to `openshift-marketplace` enables the catalog to run in all namespaces. Subscriptions in any namespace can reference catalogs created in the `openshift-marketplace` namespace.
+
[NOTE]
====

> The default namespace security for `openshift-marketplace` is `baseline`, therefore a catalog source custom resource (CR) created in that namespace does not require a `spec.grpcPodConfig.securityContextConfig` value to be set. You can set a `legacy` or `restricted` value if required for the namespace and Operators you want to use.

Reviewer 2: I don't think "namespace security" is the correct term. See: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/authentication/understanding-and-managing-pod-security-admission.html

====

. Get the SHA of the catalog index image by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ skopeo inspect docker://registry.example.com/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.14 | jq `.Digest` <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ skopeo inspect docker://registry.example.com/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.15 | jq `.Digest` <1>
```

----
<1> Pass the value from the `spec.image` field in the Catalog Source CR.
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
"sha256:7a76c0880a839035eb6e896d54ebd63668bb37b82040692141ba39ab4c539bc6"
----

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+
```
To fix the break in your numbering

[IMPORTANT]
====
You must use the SHA instead of a tag in your catalog CR or the pod fails to start.
====

> . Add the SHA of the catalog index commit to the Catalog Source (CR) by editing the YAML:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Add the SHA of the catalog index commit to the Catalog Source (CR), similar to the following example:
```

  namespace: openshift-marketplace
spec:
  image: registry.example.com/redhat/redhat-operator-index@sha256:7a76c0880a839035eb6e896d54ebd63668bb37b82040692141ba39ab4c539bc6 <1>
  sourceType: grpc
  displayName:
  publisher:
  updateStrategy:
    registryPoll:
      interval: 60m
----
<1> The SHA of the image commit.

. Apply the YAML file from the results directory to the cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f ./oc-mirror-workspace/results-1708508014/catalogSource-cs-redhat-operator-index.yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
catalogsource.operators.coreos.com/cs-redhat-operator-index created
----

.Verification

. Verify that the `CatalogSource` resources were successfully installed by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get catalogsource --all-namespaces
----
//add example output

. Verify that the catalog source is running by using the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n openshift-marketplace
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cs-redhat-operator-index-4227b   2/2     Running   0          2m5s

> ----

Reviewer 2: Using the verification label in the middle of procedure breaks the number. So, either remove the label and refactor the verification steps as sub-bullets or break this into two procedures.

> . Create a Subscription CR configuration file by using the following example YAML:
> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ cat > <my-subscription-cr.yaml> <1>
> ----
> <1> Replace _<my-subscription-cr.yaml>_ with the name of your Subscription CR.
> +
> .Subscription custom resource example YAML
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
> kind: Subscription
> metadata:
>   name: amq-broker
>   namespace: openshift-operators
> spec:
>   channel: 7.11.x
>   name: amq-broker-rhel8
>   source: cs-redhat-operator-index
>   sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
> ----

Reviewer 2: Same as before, the `cat` command isn't necessary. Users can create the file using `cat`, a text editor, or even the console.
```suggestion
. Create a `Subscription` CR, similar to the following example:
+
.Example `my-subscription-cr.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: amq-broker
  namespace: openshift-operators
spec:
  channel: 7.11.x
  name: amq-broker-rhel8
  source: cs-redhat-operator-index
  sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
----
```

Author: No console in MicroShift, but point taken.

> . Apply the Subscription CR configuration by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Apply the `Subscription` CR by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc apply -f ./<my-subscription-cr.yaml> <1>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ oc apply -f ./<subscription_cr> <1>
```

----

> <1> Replace _<my-subscription-cr.yaml>_ with the name of your Subscription CR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> Specify the name of your `Subscription` CR, such as `my-subscription-cr.yaml`.
```

+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----

> subscription.operators.coreos.com/cs-redhat-operator-index-4227b

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subscription.operators.coreos.com/amq-broker created
```

```
$ oc apply -f ./sub.yaml
subscription.operators.coreos.com/amq-broker created
```

//Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* microshift_running_apps/microshift-operators-olm.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-apply-ops-ostree-offline-use_{context}"]
= Applying catalogs and Operators in an offline RHEL for Edge image

After you have created a {op-system-ostree} image for offline use and configured {microshift-short} networking settings for offline use, you can configure the namespace and edit the custom resources (CR) generated by the oc mirror dry run for running your Operators.
//Q: Do we use this procedure for homegrown operators if we have a local, file-based catalog that we made?

.Prerequisites
* You have a {op-system-ostree} image.
* Networking is configured for offline use.
* You completed the oc mirror dry run procedure.

.Procedure

. Create a `CatalogSource` custom resource by using the following example YAML:
//add cat command here to make the file
+
.Example `CatalogSource` YAML
[source,yaml]
----

> apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1

Author: @pmtk ^^ does this effect the PR you're working on?

> apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1

Author: @pmtk ^^

> apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1

Reviewer: In the OpenShift, `openshift-marketplace` namespace's security is `baseline` and linked commit aligns OpenShift and MicroShift.
My testing showed that after we aligned that, CatalogSource CR doesn't need grpcPodConfig at all.
In other words: the CatalogSource that oc-mirror produces, which lacks grpcPodConfig, works out of the box on MicroShift and I suspect it also works like that on OCP

> apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1

Reviewer 3: as I mentioned above, if it is created in openshift-marketplace after that code, no need to set grpcPodConfig.
if it is created in other ns which enfource is still restricted, still need to set it as restricted.
same for ocp.

  displayName:
  publisher:
  grpcPodConfig:
    securityContextConfig: baseline <2>
  updateStrategy:
    registryPoll:
      interval: 60m
----
<1> The global namespace. Setting the `metadata.namespace` to `openshift-marketplace` enables the catalog to run in all namespaces. Subscriptions in any namespace can reference catalogs created in the `openshift-marketplace` namespace.
<2> The default value of `securityContextConfig`.

. Change the `openshift-marketplace` namespace label `pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce` from `restricted` to `privileged` in the Catalog Source custom resource (CR):
+
.Example namespace configuration
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: CatalogSource
metadata:
  name: cs-redhat-operator-index
  namespace: openshift-marketplace
spec:
  image: registry.example.com/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.14
  sourceType: grpc
  displayName:
  publisher:
  grpcPodConfig:
    securityContextConfig: privileged <1>
  updateStrategy:
    registryPoll:
      interval: 60m
----
<1> Update default `baseline` value to `privaleged`.

. Get the SHA of the catalog index image by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ sudo skopeo inspect docker://registry.example.com/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.14 | jq `.Digest` <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ skopeo inspect docker://registry.example.com/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.14 | jq `.Digest` <1>
```

----
<1> Pass the value from the `spec.image` field in the Catalog Source CR.
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
"sha256:7a76c0880a839035eb6e896d54ebd63668bb37b82040692141ba39ab4c539bc6"
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
You must use the SHA instead of a tag in your catalog CR or the pod fails to start.
====

. Add the SHA of the catalog index commit to the Catalog Source (CR) by editing the YAML:
+
.Example namespace `spec.image` configuration
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: CatalogSource
metadata:
  name: cs-redhat-operator-index
  namespace: openshift-marketplace
spec:

>   image: registry.redhat.io/redhat/redhat-operator-index@sha256:7a76c0880a839035eb6e896d54ebd63668bb37b82040692141ba39ab4c539bc6 <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  image: registry.example.com/redhat/redhat-operator-index@sha256:7a76c0880a839035eb6e896d54ebd63668bb37b82040692141ba39ab4c539bc6 <1>
```

  sourceType: grpc
  displayName:
  publisher:
  grpcPodConfig:

>     securityContextConfig: privileged

Reviewer 3: @ShaunaDiaz no privileged supported, so suggest to follow the last two step output: no it or set it as restricted
